Shehzad account portal docs (#150)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: docs/quickstarts/full-stack/nextjs.mdx

Update your root layout to include the `<ClerkProvider>` wrapper. The `<ClerkProvider>` component wraps your Next.js application to provide active session and user context to Clerk's hooks and other components. It is recommended that the `<ClerkProvider>` wraps the `<body>` to enable the context to be accessible anywhere within the app.

<Tabs items={["App Router", "Pages"]}>

<Tab>
```tsx copy filename="app/layout.tsx"

> import './globals.css'
> import { Inter } from 'next/font/google'
> import { ClerkProvider } from '@clerk/nextjs'
> 
> const inter = Inter({ subsets: ['latin'] })

Reviewer: nit: I think it would be ideal if we removed any non-necessary lines here:
```suggestion
import { ClerkProvider } from '@clerk/nextjs'
```

export const metadata = {
  title: 'Create Next App',
  description: 'Generated by create next app',
}

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode
}) {
  return (
    <ClerkProvider>
      <html lang="en">
        <body className={inter.className}>{children}</body>
      </html>
    </ClerkProvider>
  )
}

```
</Tab>
<Tab>
```tsx filename="_app.tsx" copy
import { ClerkProvider } from "@clerk/nextjs";
import type { AppProps } from "next/app";

>  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }: AppProps) {
  return (
    <ClerkProvider {...pageProps}>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </ClerkProvider>
  );
}

>  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

  The root layout is a server component, if you plan to use the `<ClerkProvider>` outside the root layout it will need to be a server component as well.
</Callout>

## Protect your application

Now that Clerk is installed and mounted in your application, it’s time to decide which pages are public and which need to hide behind authentication. We do this by creating a `middleware.ts` file at the root folder (or inside `src/` if that is how you set up your app).

```tsx filename="middleware.ts" copy
import { authMiddleware } from "@clerk/nextjs";

// This example protects all routes including api/trpc routes
// Please edit this to allow other routes to be public as needed.
// See https://clerk.com/docs/nextjs/middleware for more information about configuring your middleware
export default authMiddleware({});

export const config = {
  matcher: ["/((?!.*\\..*|_next).*)", "/", "/(api|trpc)(.*)"],
};

```

With this, your entire application is protected and if you try to access it, it will redirect you to your Sign Up page. If you want to make other routes public, you can read more on the [authMiddleware reference page](https://clerk.com/docs/nextjs/middleware).

> <Callout type="info" emoji=🎉">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info" emoji="🎉">

```

>  At this point, your application is fully protected by Clerk and uses our [Account Portal](/features/account-portal.mdx) pages which are available out of box. Start your Next.js application via npm run dev , visit http://localhost:3000 and sign up to get access to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 At this point, your application is fully protected by Clerk and uses Clerk's [Account Portal](/features/account-portal.mdx) pages that are available out of box. Start your Next.js application via `npm run dev`, visit `http://localhost:3000`, and sign up to get access to your application.

```

</Callout>

## Build your own sign in and sign up pages

> In addition to the Account Portal, Clerk also offers a set of prebuilt components that you can use instead to embed sign in, sign up, and other user management functions into your Next.js application. We are going to use the <SignIn />,<SignUp /> components by utilizing the Next.js optional catch all route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the Account Portal, Clerk also offers a set of prebuilt components that you can use instead to embed sign in, sign up, and other user management functions into your Next.js application. We are going to use the `<SignIn />`, `<SignUp />` components by utilizing the Next.js optional catch all route.

```

Reviewer: Nit: link to the Next docs on optional catch-all routes

  By default, the Clerk components inherit the font family. With create-next-app they don't apply a global font family. When you launch your application you may notice that the font family is different.
</Callout>

### Update your environment variables 

Next, add environment variables for the `signIn`, `signUp`, `afterSignUp` and `afterSignIn` paths:

```sh copy filename=".env.local"
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_URL=/sign-in
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_URL=/sign-up
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_IN_URL=/
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_AFTER_SIGN_UP_URL=/
    ```

These values control the behavior of the components when you sign in or sign up and when you click on the respective links at the bottom of each component.

## Embed the <UserButton /> 

> The <UserButton /> allows you to manage your account information and log out, thus allowing you to complete a full authentication circle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<UserButton />` allows users to manage their account information and log out, thus allowing you to complete a full authentication circle.
```

> You can add it anywhere you want, next to the logo in app/page.tsx is a good start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add it anywhere you want, but next to the logo in `app/page.tsx` is a good start.

```

Reviewer: Note that we also support the `pages` directory here too, so we might need to call out both places.

<Tabs items={["App Router", "Pages"]}>
<Tab>
```tsx copy filename="app/page.tsx"

> //app/page.tsx

Reviewer: The filename will be rendered as part of the code block component
```suggestion
```

import { UserButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <div>
      <UserButton afterSignOutUrl="/"/>
    </div>
  )
}
```
</Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```tsx copy filename="pages/example.tsx"
import { UserButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";
 
export default function Example() {
  return (
    <>
			<header>
				<UserButton afterSignOutUrl="/"/>
			</header>
			<div>Your page's content can go here.</div>
    </>
  );
}
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Sign up for your Application

> Now start your Next.js application via npm run dev , visit http://localhost:3000 and sign up to get access to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now start your Next.js application via `npm run dev` , visit `http://localhost:3000`, and sign up to get access to your application.

```
